= app_helpers

A collection of useful Rails application helpers.


== Installation

Add app_helper submodule

  git submodule add git@github.com:winton/app_helpers.git vendor/plugins/app_helpers
  
Copy resources (<tt>app/views/app_helpers</tt>)

  rake app_helpers


== Assets

=== <tt>default_javascript</tt>

  javascript_include_tag "#{params[:controller]}/#{params[:action]}"

=== <tt>default_stylesheet</tt>

  stylesheet_link_tag "#{params[:controller]}/#{params[:action]}"

=== <tt>javascripts(*paths, &block)</tt>

Define javascript dependencies from outside of the layout.

The action view:

  - javascripts 'js_file_1', 'js_file_2' do
    %script alert('test')

The layout:

  = javascripts

Output:
  
  <script src="/javascripts/js_file_1.js?4dd28de5c70d6d4022d779c5185f9a79cb1ae84a" type="text/javascript"></script>
  <script src="/javascripts/js_file_2.js?4dd28de5c70d6d4022d779c5185f9a79cb1ae84a" type="text/javascript"></script>
  <script>alert('test')</script>

=== <tt>stylesheets(*paths, &block)</tt>

Define CSS dependencies from outside the layout.

The action view:

  - stylesheets 'css_file_1', 'css_file_2' do
    default_stylesheet

The layout:

  = stylesheets

Output:

  <link href="/stylesheets/css_file_1.css?4dd28de5c70d6d4022d779c5185f9a79cb1ae84a" media="screen" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <link href="/stylesheets/css_file_2.css?4dd28de5c70d6d4022d779c5185f9a79cb1ae84a" media="screen" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <link href="/stylesheets/controller/action.css?4dd28de5c70d6d4022d779c5185f9a79cb1ae84a" media="screen" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />


=== <tt>templates(*paths, &block)</tt>

Define JST templates from outside the layout. Requires *Template*.

The action view:

  - templates [ 'textarea_id', 'path/to/partial', { :partial_local => 0 } ]

The layout:

  = templates

Output:

  <textarea id="textarea_id">partial content</textarea>


== Partials

=== <tt>block_to_partial(partial_name, options = {}, &block)</tt>

Sends the output of a block to a partial as the local variable 'body'.

Example:

  = block_to_partial 'some_partial', :locals => { :x => 0 } do
    Two local variables will be sent to the partial; 'x' (0) and 'body' (this text).


== MooTools

=== <tt>mootools</tt>

The javascript path to the MooTools library. In development mode, returns <tt>stutools/assets/moo</tt>. In production, returns <tt>moo</tt>.

=== <tt>stutools</tt>

The javascript path to the StuTools library. In development mode, returns an array of paths (<tt>stutools/*.js</tt>). In production, returns <tt>stu</tt>.

*Note*: Commonly both are included with

  = javascript_include_tag *(mootools + stutools + [ :cache => true ])


== Rake Tasks

=== <tt>rake app_helpers</tt>
  
Installs <tt>app/views/app_helpers</tt>, which includes a few partials required by *Tbl* and *Template*.

=== <tt>rake git:submodule</tt>

Runs <tt>git:submodule:update</tt>, and <tt>git:submodule:pull</tt>.

=== <tt>rake git:submodule:update</tt>

  git submodule init
  git submodule update

=== <tt>rake git:submodule:pull</tt>

Finds git projects in <tt>config</tt>, <tt>public/javascripts</tt>, and <tt>vendor/plugins</tt> and runs
  
  git pull origin master

on each.


== Tbl

=== <tt>tbl(type, name, unit=nil, *widths, &block)</tt>

Uses the partials in <tt>app/views/app_helpers/tbl</tt> to generate CSS tables (rows of content with specific column widths).

Include the following in your site-wide SASS:

  .row
    :overflow hidden
    .parent
      :float left
      :display block

The view:

  - tbl :row, :your_identifier, :px, 100, 200, 300 do
    - tbl :cell, :your_identifier do
      Row 1, Cell 1
    - tbl :cell, :your_identifier do
      Row 1, Cell 2
    - tbl :cell, :your_identifier do
      Row 1, Cell 3
    - tbl :cell, :your_identifier do
      Row 2, Cell 1
    - tbl :cell, :your_identifier do
      Row 2, Cell 2
    - tbl :cell, :your_identifier do
      Row 2, Cell 3

*Note*: Change <tt>:px</tt> to <tt>'%'</tt> for percentage widths.


== Template

=== <tt>template(id, path=nil, locals={})</tt>

Renders a partial inside a textarea tag for use with JST. Uses the partial in <tt>app/views/app_helpers/template</tt>.

Example:

  = template :textarea_id, 'path/to/partial', :local_variable => 0

Output:

  <textarea id="textarea_id">partial content</textarea>

*Note*: If the path is not included, the partial path is taken from the id.


== Truncate

=== <tt>better_truncate(text, length = 80, truncate_string = "...")</tt>

Truncates without cutting words in half.


== Widget

=== <tt>widget(*lineage)</tt>

Groups js, css, templates, and partials around a particular UI element.

The directory structure allows for widgets to be built on top of each other (versioned).

  app/
    widgets/
      widget_name/
        options.rb
          { option: true, option2: false }
        javascripts/
          init.js
        partials/
          _init.haml
        stylesheets/
        templates/
        widgets/
          widget_name_v2/
            options.rb
            ...and so on

Example:

  = widget :widget_name, :widget_name_v2, { option: false, option2: true }
  
<b>What does this call do?</b>

- First run
  - Merges the <tt>options.rb</tt> hashes, with newer versioned widgets taking precedent over older versions
  - Renders javascripts and stylesheets as ERB with options available as local variables
    - Copies them to <tt>widgets/widget_name_widget_name_v2</tt> in their respective public folders

- Every time
  - Adds javascripts, stylesheets, and templates from all versions using the *Asset* helper
  - Merges <tt>options.rb</tt> hashes with options parameter in the widget call
  - Renders <tt>partials/_init.*</tt> to the view (where the widget call was made), making options available as a local variable
  - Renders <tt>javascripts/_init.js.erb</tt> to the javascript *Asset* helper, making options available as a local variable

<b>Versioned widgets?</b>

- Every widget can optionally have a <tt>widgets/</tt> directory
- <tt>widget_name/widgets/widget_name_v2/SOME_FILE</tt> will overwrite <tt>widget_name/SOME_FILE</tt>
  - init files are the exception, they are joined together, beginning with the oldest version

=== <tt>widget_partial(*lineage)</tt>

Renders a partial in the widget's <tt>partials</tt> directory, making the widget options available to the partial.

Example:

  = widget_partial :widget_name, :widget_name_v2, :some_partial, { :locals => { option: true, option2: false } }